SOTC:

Shadow of the Colossus is the greatest achievement in video games. A minimalist masterpiece, Team Ico created one of the most awe-inspiring and lingering video games ever. The Colossi are breathtaking achievements, pushing the PS2 to the limit to bring "David vs. Goliath" style battles to life. The art style is beautiful, cementing Team Ico's style of sparse, but ancient-feeling environments. The camera is clumsy, but the cinematic moments this game is able to conjure far outshine what games have done before or since. And the music. The music is sublime. This game is one of the defining achievements of the 21st century so far

Journey:
Journey was one of the greatest artistic achievements of the PS3. With a beautiful art style and some of the best music in video games, this little 1.5-3 hour adventure will give you some of the most memorable imagery from a video game you'll ever experience while also thrusting you deep into a minimal story about life, death, and the need for camaraderie with our fellow humans. One of the best games of the 7th generation, it combined its art style, music, gameplay, and story to craft a masterpiece that should end the debate on whether video games can be art.

Half-Life 2:
Few games have ever been as influential as Half-Life 2, and as far as I'm concerned it is still THE first-person shooter to beat. Valve outdid themselves by creating this invigorating Sci Fi masterpiece featuring some of gameplay mechanics to ever be seen in a shooter. The gravity gun and the source 2 engine alone are enough to make Half-Life 2 an achievement. Add in Ravenholm, the art style (particularly City 17), the "ahead of its time" graphics, and likeable characters. Well, you've got yourselves a masterpiece and one of the greatest games of all time. It's been 13 years and this game still holds up. That says enough about its strengths in itself.

AC3:
AC3 failed to live up to its hype and the reputation of its predecessors. The American Revolution should have been a great time to explore. Instead fans were treated to a boring, abrasive protagonist, towns that lacked the verticality and depth of older games, and an ending that could turn people away from the games forever. Becoming an annual franchise was the first sign that this series would begin to go downhill.
